---
layout: post
title: Objective - C Core Data
  
---  
  
# Core Data  
  
## How does it work?  
  
1. Create a visual mapping (using Xcode tool) between database and objects  
2. Create and query for objects using object-oriented API  
3. Access the "columns in the database table" using @propertys on those objects    
  
### You need an `NSManagedObjectContext`  
It is the hub around which all Core Data activity turns.    
#### How do I get one?  
1. Create a `UIManagedDocument` and ask for its `managedObjectContext`(a @property)  
2. Click the "Use Core Data" button when you create a project.  
  
###  `UIManagedDocument`  
It inherits from UIDocument which provides a lot of mechanism for the management of storage.  
  
### But you must open/create the document to use it  
Check to see if it exists:`[[NSFileManager defaultManager] fileExistsAtPath:[url path]]`  
If it does, open the document …  
	-(void)openWithCompletionHandler:(void (^)(BOOL success))completionHandler;
If it does not, create it using …    
	- (void)saveToURL:(NSURL *)url  
	 forSaveOperation:(UIDocumentSaveOperation)operation  
	 competionHandler:(void (^)(BOOL success))completionHandler;  
  
### What is that `completionHander`?  
Just a *block* of code to execute when the open/save completes. That's needed because the open/save is *asynchronous*! Do not ignore this fact!  
  
## NSNotification  
Get the default notification centre via `[NSNotificationCenter defaultCenter]`  
Then send it the following message if you want to observe another object:  
  
	-(void)addObserver:(id)observer //you(the object to get notified)  
	 			selector:(SEL)methodToSendIfSomethingHappens  
				name:(NSString *)name  // what you're observing (a constant somewhere)
				object:(id)sender;  //whose changes you're interested in (nil is anyone's)  
### You will then be notified when the named event happens  
  
	-(void)methodToSendIfSomethingHappens:(NSNotification *)notification  
	{  
		notification.name  		// the name passed above
		notification.object		// the object sending you the notification  
		notification.userInfo  // notification-specific information about what happened  
	}
  
### Don't forget to remove yourself when you're down watching.  
`[center removeObserver:self];` or `[center removeObserver:self name:UIDocumentStateChangedNotification object:self.document];`  
Failure to remove yourself can sometimes result in crashers.  
This is because the NSNotificationCenter keeps an "unsafe unretained" pointer to you.  
  
